---
layout:    post
title:    Thoughts
created:  Sat Apr 29 2017 12:42:38 GMT+0200 (CEST)
modified: Sat Apr 29 2017 13:06:47 GMT+0200 (CEST)
---

## On Object oriented programming:
A subclass, extension, etc is just a patch, as in versioning. And this analogy is illustrative, because the whole idea of OOP is to allow for future subclasses to extend/change current domain logic. But this is too simple, OOP has more: to aid with this "patching", a guiding ordering principle for the domain logic. Though of course this will always be faulty and hence a mere pragmatic thing, in the end.

## On organisational structures and logical puzzles:
I've often mused on the problem, in organisational structuring, of that it is ugly and (because) somehow impossible to specify the workings of an organisation beforehand. Specifically, the bus driver, as a man caught in the middle of an (economic) fight between the boss of the bus company and the travellers, as a broken/lost link of upward communication, the friction though economic logic of it, ... Also, specifically, the fact that circumstances "in the field" are not felt back upwards through the organisational structure, and are never / cannot be predicted well beforehand from above. Today, I related this setting to the logical puzzle: the point being that the exact cause of this problem is the logicality of the people involved "in the field", contrasted with the "illogical", mechanical job they are assigned to do. This is a neat guiding insight, I believe. Sense and effect of morality, in a weak sense, if anything, is something that arises somehow from this logical puzzle, that organisational structures seem to deny.

## On economics, affordances, and democracy.
It struck me yesterday, that good things, in their habit of seeming to always (necessarily) grow naturally ; contrasted with the idea of collective decision-making being the primary objective and/or a primary condition to a morally well governed society (hence democracy) ; this being a paradox ; the conclusion must be that:
- democracy is expressly (and observably) not about having decision-making done necessarily collectively, but about creating an environment that is grounded in (collective??)/morality before economics, in which subsequently ideas and decisions can sprout (and hence will be good).